So guys continuing from the previous slide in Makefile V, right, rules, right and rules have the
following syntax.
So you can see that rules have three parts.
The first part is what we want to prepare.
That is the final dish that we want to prepare.
The second part of the rules is that what are the raw materials you need in order to prepare the final
dish?
And the third part of the rule is the recipe or the steps that you will follow in order to prepare the
final dish from the raw materials that you have.
So the Makefile rule has these three parts.
Now let us take an example regarding how to write a make file rule.
So if you recall the dependency tree in order to prepare Licalsi, not a static library, you can see
that in order to prepare this Licalsi, not a static library, you first need all the object files in
hand.
So let us discuss the rules in order to create each of these object files.
So going forward, so in this case, the final dish will be the object file that we will going to prepare.
And of course, we know that the object files are created out of the source file.
So the raw material will be the source file.
And what is the command to create an object file out of source file?
Now, you already know how to compile our source file to create an object file.
So just write a simple compiler command that is DCC hyphen fancy hyphens.
It stands for completion minus I it is Cappotelli minus.
Our flag is used to specify the directory where all the dependent -- are present.
The compiler will search in this directory to look at all the header files which are included in the
source file.
If the header file, which is included by this source file is present in multiple directories, you
can repeat minus I flag followed by directory multiple times in the same line.
We will see this example in the next slide.
So just remember Hyphen Cappotelli.
A flag is used to specify the directory or location of header files.
Next, just to specify the source file, which you want to compile and using minus or specify the name
of the object file that you want to create.
So you can see that this is the part three of the rule, similarly, you can create other object files
in the similar fashion.
So this is the complex underscore Martha, not all object file, which is which requires complex underscore
math, dot see as a raw material source file and the rule to create a complex of the so-called math
dot.
All object file is the following.
Right, so exactly in the similar manner, you can also create drek underscore my thought all object
file following the same approach.
So as for the dependancy tree, now we have all the Elvan elements ready, which are required to prepare
Licalsi a historic library, right.
So here, 11 elements means that all the object files on which Licalsi, not a static library, is directly
dependent.
So now we have all the object files ready.
We are now in a position to write a rule which will prepare Licalsi, not a static library, as a final
dish.
And we already know that static libraries need object files as raw materials.
So to specify all the object file separated by space and you already know the command to create a static
library out of all the dependent object files.
So after this stuff, we have now created our library, which is Licalsi today, right now.
Next, we also want to create an executable because we have main source file.
So now let us discuss the dependency tree of executable.
So in order to create an executable as a final dish, the data dependent component is an object file
correspond to the source file, which contains main function.
Since Endorsee is such a source file.
Therefore, we need mean that all as an object file in order to prepare this executable.
Also, our executables will make use of the library that we have just prepared, so the external library
on which our executable is dependent is Licalsi today and not that on executable is also dependent on
another external library, which is a standard library called Live With My Thought.
So now the question is that right of our executable is dependent on this external standard library.
So it does because in Flyleaf on the school math doxy, if you open this file, I have included the
standard math, not each header file.
And because I'm using sign and cause functions which are inWorld and celebrity.
These functions are actually coming from Matt s old library.
So as we know that in order to create final executable, we need to include all the external libraries
on which are executable, is dependent.
So little metatarsal is that standard external library, which is already existing in your system.
So, guys, going forward now, we have discussed the dependency tree to create our executable as a
final product.
So now let us discuss the rule that we will going to write in our makefile, which honors this dependency
tree so executable is dependent on, of course, the main object file and the external library, the
standard external library that is lip metadata.
So need not to be specified in the rule.
But while writing a recipe to create a final executable, it is important that we specify all the liabilities
on which are executable is dependent.
So here we have specified the external library, which is prepared by us, and here we have specified
the standard lipoma as all library.
You can see that this standard library can be specified by using simply minus L.M. shorthand.
We already know that the step in which we create a final executable is called linking, right?
And of course, this may not all object file also needs to be prepared.
So we need to write one more rule to prepare men, not all object file as a final product.
And you can see that many object file is dependent on all the header files.
If you open a file may not see, you can see that in this main doxy file.
I have hash included all the header files.
Right.
So it is for this reason.
That you need to specify all the directories using minus I Sorich.
Because these directories contains the header file, which is hash included in the source file.
So we have discussed all the rules that we need to put together in one single make file.
So now let us discuss how can we do that so guys, now next we will going to write Makefile in order
to create this final executable.
So you can see that on this black window on the right hand side.
I have opened the editor and I will call up Makefile.
So the very first thing that is in the very first line of the makefile, you have to specify the final
end product that this makefile is supposed to prepare.
In our case, our end product is the final executable and therefore the syntax to specify the end product
is some variable.
So target is not a keyword.
It is just some variable separated by colon and the name of the final product that you want to prepare
in case you want to prepare multiple and products, then you can specify all those and products separated
by space in this first line of the makefile.
Then after that, we need to specify the rules one after another as per the dependency tree, so you
can see that if we recap, we discussed these set of rules to prepare the object, fine.
So just specify these set of rules as it is.
That is copy paste in this make file.
So you can see that I have simply copy pasted all these rules in this file as it is.
And after that we have three more rules.
That is the rule to prepare Licalsi DOT eight.
So here you can specify the rule Licalsi dot as it is, of course.
And then we had two more rules.
That is the rule to prepare the final executable and the rule to prepare mainboard object file.
So you can specify these two rules as it is in the make file.
So you can see that I have done nothing.
I have simply copy pasted the rules that we have discussed in this file.
Please note that you can specify these rules in any order you want.
The order of the rules in the Makefile do not matter.
And after that, I will specify one special rule whose name is clean and I will discuss about this rule
in detail, basically in this rule will delete everything that was built by this makefile, be it object
files, the static library's shared libraries, executables or any other product which was prepared
by this makefile.
I will discuss about this clean rule in detail in the next lecture.
We do.
So you can see that I have this makefile ready and now we will discuss that, how the execution of this
makefile happens step by step.
Also, please be careful that while writing a makefile, make use of tab.
In the front of a line where you specify the recipe to please you step and do not use spaces.
So let us discuss that, how this makefile actually works.